Add `/webhooks` route (#3336)
meilisearch/documentation: reference/api/webhooks.mdx

---
title: Webhooks
description: Use the /webhooks to trigger automatic workflows when Meilisearch finishes processing tasks.
---

import { RouteHighlighter } from '/snippets/route_highlighter.mdx'

import CodeSamplesWebhooksGet1 from '/snippets/samples/code_samples_webhooks_get_1.mdx';
import CodeSamplesWebhooksPost1 from '/snippets/samples/code_samples_webhooks_post_1.mdx';
import CodeSamplesWebhooksPatch1 from '/snippets/samples/code_samples_webhooks_patch_1.mdx';
import CodeSamplesWebhooksDelete1 from '/snippets/samples/code_samples_webhooks_delete_1.mdx';

Use the `/webhooks` to trigger automatic workflows when Meilisearch finishes processing tasks.

## The webhook object

```json
{
  "uuid": "V4_UUID_GENERATED_BY_MEILISEARCH",
  "url": "WEBHOOK_NOTIFICATION_TARGET_URL",
  "headers": {
    "HEADER": "VALUE",
  },
  "isEditable": false
}
```

- `uuid`: a v4 uuid Meilisearch automatically generates when you create a new webhook
- `url`: a string indication the URL Meilisearch should notify whenever it completes a task, required
- `headers`: an object with HTTP headers and their values, optional, often used for authentication

> - `isEditable`: read-only Boolean field indicating whether you can edit the webhook. Meilisearch automatically sets this to false for its internal webhooks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `isEditable`: read-only Boolean field indicating whether you can edit the webhook. This can only be set automatically by Meilisearch for its internal webhooks
```

## Get all webhooks

<RouteHighlighter method="GET" path="/webhooks" />

Get a list of all webhooks configured in the current Meilisearch instance.

### Example

<CodeSamplesWebhooksGet1 />

#### Response: `200 OK`

```json
{
  "results": [
    {
      "uuid": "UUID_V4",
      "url": "WEBHOOK_TARGET_URL",
      "headers": {
        "HEADER": "VALUE",
      },
      "isEditable": false
    },
    {
      "uuid": "UUID_V4",
      "url": "WEBHOOK_TARGET_URL",
      "headers": null,
      "isEditable": true
    }
  ]
}
```

## Get a single webhook

<RouteHighlighter method="GET" path="/webhooks/{uuid}" />

Get a single webhook configured in the current Meilisearch instance.

### Example

<CodeSamplesWebhooksGetSingle1 />

#### Response: `200 OK`

```json
{
  "uuid": "UUID_V4",
  "url": "WEBHOOK_TARGET_URL",
  "headers": {
    "HEADER": "VALUE",
  },
  "isEditable": false
}
```

## Create a webhook

<RouteHighlighter method="POST" path="/webhooks" />

Create a new webhook. When Meilisearch finishes processing a task, it sends the relevant [task object](/reference/api/tasks#task-object) to all configured webhooks.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can have up to 20 webhooks but we recommend you keep this low, as having many webhooks may impact performance.

```

### Example

<CodeSamplesWebhooksPost1 />

#### Response: `200 OK`

```json
{
  "uuid": "627ea538-733d-4545-8d2d-03526eb381ce",
  "url": "WEBHOOK_TARGET_URL",
  "headers": {
    "authorization": "SECURITY_KEY",
    "referer": "https://example.com",
  },
  "isEditable": true
}
```

## Update a webhook

<RouteHighlighter method="PATCH" path="/webhooks/{uuid}" />

Update the configuration for the specified webhook. To remove a field, set its value to `null`.

<Note>
It is not possible to edit webhooks whose `isEditable` field is set to `false`.

> Meilisearch Cloud may create internal webhooks to support features such as Analytics and monitoring. These webhooks are always `isEditable: false`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Meilisearch may create internal webhooks to support features such as Analytics and monitoring. These webhooks are always `isEditable: false`.
```

We didn't precised Meilisearch Cloud before (line 31)
